astronomical anomaly causes a reality
bending experience to aid friends at a
dinner party welcome back to popcorn
time movie digest
today i will show you a science fiction
mystery thriller film from 2013 titled
coherence spoilers alert watch out and
take care eight friends living in
northern california reunite for a dinner
party being held at the home of spouses
mike and lee on the night of the passing
of miller's comment the film starts with
emily driving and talking to her
boyfriend kevin kevin asks emily if she
wants to come with him on his business
trip to vietnam and she doesn't say yes
the conversation gets cut due to the
loss of mobile phone signal
after this her phone cracks
in the kitchen we can see beth lee and
mike mixing up the oil with the salad
the doorbell rings and emily enters the
room
emily tells them that she was talking to
kevin when the line was cut in the phone
cracked
she mentioned that the news was talking
about the comet and they keep telling
people that this can happen
beth signals something to mike and he
catches on beth asked emily if amir
mentioned that he is bringing lori to
dinner she said no
laurie is kevin's ex-girlfriend to clear
out some air beth says she has these
drops which is a concoction of her own
it's a powerful mix of chemicals with a
little horse tranquilizer in it she uses
it to take the edge off
meanwhile the doorbell rings and hugh
and kevin enter lee pulls out a roast
from the oven while the rest are all
chatting during dinner miller's comet is
passing over
everyone reaches mike's only's place
in the diner room everyone is sitting
around the table and laughing kevin
pulls out his phone only to discover
that no one has a signal on their mobile
phones and there is no internet at home
emily mentions an older comet event
where it affected the people
she said after it passed they would get
lost they would end up in the wrong home
they would forget things they really
wouldn't know where they were they all
listen attentively while emily tells
another story
she reads about this one woman who
called the police and said the man in my
house is not my husband and then the
police came over and they said this is
your husband
she said no this is not my husband
i killed my husband yesterday the woman
said that's how i know it's not him but
they couldn't arrest her because he was
standing right there next to them
a power outage occurs the hosts have
some glow sticks that they use for light
and they decide to use the blue glow
sticks everyone goes outside and sees
the entire neighborhood has gone dark
except for one house that still has
power
when they go back inside they notice a
broken glass that no one remembers
damaging hugh mentions that his brother
asks him to call if anything strange
happens as the comet passes over since
no one has phones
hugh and emir go to the other house to
ask to use their phone
emily explains that the previous time
the comet passed over the earth it was
much further away there were no noted
strange events that happened
she also talks about the tunguska event
when a meteoroid entered the atmosphere
over siberia
the explosion caused trees to get
flattened over two thousand square
kilometers but there were no human
casualties
suddenly they hear heavy knocking on the
side door
there is no one at the door and it's
been 10 minutes since you and amir have
left
mike gets the generator running and the
power returns
a few minutes later hugh and amir are
back both have wounds on their faces and
are carrying a box which turns out to
contain a ping pong paddle and
photographs of everyone including one of
a mirror that could only have been taken
that night with numbers written on the
backs
hugh deeply upset reveals that he looked
into the other house and saw a dinner
party set for eight people he wants to
go back to the other house see if anyone
answers and if not leave a note so hugh
decides to write a note to leave at the
other house when they notice a man
approaching freaking them out but he
quickly leaves when they investigate
they find the same note that they have
written already pinned onto their door
on a notepad emily writes down the
numbers from the box looking for a
pattern but they can't find one amir
notes that his picture is from tonight
he said he has bought the sweater from
the picture today amir is looking at the
camera but doesn't remember being
snapped
emily feels that the numbers behind the
picks are her handwriting
mike suggests all of them should go to
the other house to check if their
doubles are there emily kevin mike and
lori decide to go to the other house to
see what's happening
they go over to the other house mike
says it's his house
he sees lee and they sneak out on the
other side of the road they encounter a
group of what appear to be exact doubles
of them carrying red glow sticks rather
than blue
after catching sight of each other both
groups panic and run in different
directions emily's group explains to the
others that they met copies of
themselves except the copies were
wearing red glow sticks instead of their
blue glow sticks the group talks about
the weird dark zone they pass
hugh goes to his car to retrieve a book
belonging to his physicist brother
containing lecture notes about the
concept of quantum decoherence
after reading those notes they deduce
that the comet has created a split
reality and that one of the realities
will collapse when the comet passes they
argue about how to deal with the other
house and consider stealing the book
from the other hugh's car to prevent
their doubles from acquiring the same
knowledge
mike goes nuts wants to go over to the
other house and kill the doubles he
feels he will die when the collapse of
realities happens
mike is freaked out because if he's
suggesting that they should kill the
people in the other house his double is
plotting the same thing and if the mic
in the other house is drinking then he's
a dangerous mike
eventually mike decides to blackmail the
other house's mike to prevent them from
getting the lecture notes
mike has a private conversation with
kevin mike has a secret with beth that
he plans to use on his double in the
other house
using that secret he wants to blackmail
his other self from getting that book
from the car
the secret is mike sleeping with beth 12
years back
mike leaves despite kevin trying to stop
him
lee was sleeping because beth gives her
the drops emily asks if beth put any of
the drops in the food
this is to check if they were all
hallucinating
in their previous party when they did
mushrooms beth put some in the spaghetti
sauce but that was a group decision
the group breaks into a discussion if
the drops will cause hallucinations
beth and hugh argue that even if they
took a whole bottle each they couldn't
have a mass hallucination like this
hugh and emir realize that they are from
the house with red glow sticks
they take the box and go back to the
other house
while this is happening mike returns
mike tells kevin that he has dropped off
the blackmail letter as planned
kevin says mike was gone five minutes
but mike says he was gone 45 minutes the
group then realizes that hugh and amir
are gone and they are probably from the
other house
laurie says that you and amir were the
first to leave and have been acting
strange ever since
so she suggests that they were not their
hugh and emir kevin decides to leave to
get them back but emily says no and
stops him
lee and beth are talking lee mentions
mike's drinking problem
meanwhile in the hallway kevin and
laurie meet and lori kisses kevin kevin
asked her to stop unfortunately beth
sees them beth hansen what happened to
emily emily and kevin talk and she
brings up lori in the hallway but kevin
dismisses beth's claims the power goes
again this time the generator goes bust
hearing a noise outside they go to
investigate where they see that hugh's
car window has been smashed
while outside emily goes to check her
car and retrieves a ring that kevin gave
her from the glove compartment of her
car
she meets kevin near her car and asks if
they are okay and kevin says yes and
that laurie means nothing but when she
asks about hugh's car and if anything
was taken kevin doesn't know what she's
talking about emily and kevin realize
this
they go their way and emily returns to
the house the rest of them and kevin are
there
she then shows this kevin the ring
suddenly they notice someone is coming
hugh and emir carrying blue glow sticks
return
they start narrating their story and
there's a mention that hugh has a
different band-aid
they say that they were in a house where
everyone had red glow sticks hugh brings
up the note he writes
he says that in the other house too they
ended up with two notes
the group finally begins to realize that
since both houses ended up with two
notes that makes a total of four notes
and this could mean there are multiple
houses and not just two the group then
surmises that an area of dense darkness
outside will send anyone who passes
through it to a different reality's
house
the group decides to put a random marker
in front of their house to make their
marker unique they decide to place a
randomly chosen object and photos of
themselves in a box with numbers
obtained from dice rolls written on the
backs
amir doesn't have a picture so they take
one amir mentions that the other house
took a picture of him too but that
looked different they check how their
new numbers compare to the numbers from
the other house's box which they wrote
on the notepad earlier emily checks that
notebook
she asks everyone for their earlier
number behind their photos and they give
it to her
emily realizes that the numbers written
on this notepad aren't the same number
she wrote on the notepad earlier emily
tells mike that she remembers the number
series she earlier wrote down
however the number series she remembers
doesn't match what is already in the
notebook she finds that lee and beth are
the only ones whose memory matches
what's written on the notepad because
they're the only ones who haven't left
the house since they wrote the numbers
on the notepad kevin and laurie are the
only ones whose memory matches emily's
memory since they're the only ones who
have traveled with her the whole time
also she mentions how hugh's phone isn't
broken and hence you and amir are from a
different house
she then puts forward a theory when they
cross over to the dark zone they get
thrown randomly to reality like a ball
in a roulette wheel and that she and
mike need to go back and find their
original reality before the comet passes
else they will be stuck in the wrong
reality forever
mike says that if it is random there is
no way to get back to their original
house
mike remembers the fourth set of numbers
since he switched realities when he went
to blackmail himself
there is a knock on the door and a note
appears
the situation deteriorates further when
a note meant to blackmail mike into
keeping the others away from the book
arrives revealing an adulterously is on
between him and beth
hugh gets pissed off mike now brings up
the fact that they are all from
different realities hugh gets aggravated
and punches mike
mike sits up and is talking to emily he
says he's made his set of bad decisions
and is now stuck in this reality
suddenly another mic with a green glow
stick enters the house
this mic punches the current mic and
leaves
mike's knockdown beth gets tensed and
has a nose bleed it drips on laurie
lori freaks out as she can't stand blood
kevin comforts the shake and lorry
emily opens the door to see a note
hughes note this note means another hugh
and amir have come to the door and gone
emily gets frustrated and leaves
she wanders from one reality to another
she looks through several different
houses finding several where things are
even worse
she eventually comes across a house in
which no one seems aware of the split
and where emily is happy and secure in
her relationship with kevin in this
reality they have never had any of the
power cuts no power cut in the night
means this group never left the house
the group is intact and hence are having
a normal evening
she then plans to replace this reality's
emily emily sneaks into this house
she picks up best drops
she destroys a car window to lure the
group outside she waits until her double
comes to her car to retrieve kevin's
ring then ambushes her and shuts her
inside the car
she returns to the house and joins a
pleasant conversation with the others
because emily was missing for a while
and they asked emily where she was
she gives an excuse saying she was
watching the comment so the rest of them
decide to step out to watch the comment
they watch the comment but get back in
suddenly emily notices that her double
has crawled back inside forcing emily to
subdue her again and hide her body in
the bathtub
during the struggle she loses her ring
from kevin so she takes the ring from
the devil's finger
she then heads to the living room and
faints
she wakes up the next morning on the
sofa
lee is preparing breakfast beth is
getting done with the shower emily's
unconscious body is not in the bathroom
she is unable to find her double and
everything seems fine
she searches outside and runs into kevin
he gives her the ring and says he found
it in the bathroom emily has two rings
now when kevin's phone rings
it shows emily to be calling him
while answering the call he gives a
suspicious look towards emily emily
stares mutely and she and kevin look
expressionlessly one another as the
filmettes
explaining the ending of coherence
the reality that the original emily is
in now will permanently have two emilies
in it what happens here or in the other
realities is no longer part of the
coherence movie
however we can speculate the coherence
ending shows us that the original
reality will have an emily who has gone
missing the reality we are shown in the
ending will have two emilies and this
will be the case of an identity crisis
for them the original emily will not be
able to live happily in that reality
because the other emily is going to
fight to take her identity back
when it comes to cross questions the
original emily will have gaps in the
events of the reality as they would have
happened differently from the original
reality we don't know how things will
pan out perhaps she would have been
better off in her own reality
make sure to subscribe and turn on
notifications so you can watch more
videos like this thanks for watching